This paper presents a knowledge-based method for measuring the semantic-similarity of texts. 
While there is a large body of previous work focused on find-ing the semantic similarity of conceptsand words, the application of these word-oriented methods to text similarity has not been yet explored. 
In this paper, we in-troduce a method that combines word-to-word similarity metrics into a text-to-text metric, and we show that this method outperforms the traditional text similarity metrics based on lexical matching.
Second, we can use one of the WordNet (Miller, 1995) similarities indicated with d(lw,lwprime) (in line with what was done in (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005)) and different relation between words such as the lexical entailment between verbs (Ent) and derivationally relation between words (Der).
The above word similarity measure can be used to compute the similarity between T and H. A first class of methods defines measures of the distance or similarity between T and H either assuming the independence between words (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005; Glickman et al. , 2005) in a bag-of-word fashion or exploiting syntactic interpretations (Kouylekov and Magnini, 2005).
Other works (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005; Zanzotto and Moschitti, 2006) have applied heuristic formu10 las to estimate the similarity between text fragments based on a similarity function between their terms.
Three main classes of features have been so far explored in RTE: distance/similarity feature spaces (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005; Newman et al., 2005; Haghighi et al., 2005; Hickl et al., 2006), entailment trigger feature spaces (de Marneffe et al., 2006; MacCartney et al., 2006), and pair content feature spaces (Zanzotto et al., 2009).
This simple feature is the lexical similarity between T andH computed using WordNet-based metrics as in (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005).
Corley and Mihalcea (2005) proposed a hybrid method by combining six existing knowledge-based methods.
The first backup strategy is a straightforward BoW method that we will not present in this paper (see more details in (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005)); Id Ta s k Te x t H y po th e s i s En ta i l s ? 1IE The sale was made to pay Yukos' US$ 27.5 billion tax bill, Yuganskneftegaz was originally sold for US$ 9.4 billion to a little known com pany Baikalfinansgroup which was later bought by the Russian state-owned oil Baikalfinansgroup was sold to Rosneft.
Then, we use this cross-pair similarity with more traditional intra-pair similarities (e.g. , (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005)) to define a novel kernel function.
The first backup strategy is a straightforward BoW method that we will not present in this paper (see more details in (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005)); Id Ta s k Te x t H y po th e s i s En ta i l s ? 1IE The sale was made to pay Yukos' US$ 27.5 billion tax bill, Yuganskneftegaz was originally sold for US$ 9.4 billion to a little known com pany Baikalfinansgroup which was later bought by the Russian state-owned oil Baikalfinansgroup was sold to Rosneft.
The classifier uses as the only feature the lexical overlap similarity score described in (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005); -lex+tap: these configurations mix lexical overlap and our typed anchor approaches; -lex+tree: the comparison of this configuration with lex+tap should further support the validity of our intuition on typed anchors; Preliminary experiments have been performed using two datasets: RTE2 (the 1600 entailment pairs from the RTE-2 challenge) and RTE3d (the development dataset of this challenge).
Several models, ranging from the simple lexical similarity between T and H to advanced Logic Form Representations, have been proposed (Corley and Mihalcea, 2005; Glickman and Dagan, 2004; de Salvo Braz et al., 2005; Bos and Markert, 2005).
Such overlap features give the best-published classification accuracy for the paraphrase identification task (Zhang and Patrick, 2005; Finch et al., 2005; Wan et al., 2006; Corley and Mihalcea, 2005, inter alia), but do not explicitly model correspondence structure (or alignment) between the parts of two sentences.
