We introduce the contour spectrum, a user interface component that improves qualitative user interactionand provides real-time exact quantification in the visualizationof isocontours. 
The contour spectrum is asignature consisting of a variety of scalar data and contourattributes, computed over the range of scalar valuesw 2 !. 
We explore the use of surface area, volume, and gradient integral of the contour that are shown to be univariate B-spline functions of the scalar value w for...
...Isovalue-dependent statistics are introduced in [5], where surface area, volume, and gradient integral of contours are plotted to provide the user quantitative measures for parameter selection... Janine C. Bennett,?et al. Feature-Based Statistical Analysis of Combustion Simulation Data ...Isovalue-dependent statistics are introduced in [5], where surface area, volume, and gradient integral of contours are plotted to provide the user quantitative measures for parameter selection...
Bajaj et al. [1] introduced the contour spectrum which represents several measures for describing isosurfaces and a user interface for interactively setting parameters for the isovalue definition
The contour spectrum algorithm computes metrics over the data values of a dataset and the resulting spectrum is displayed within the user interface as a collection of signature curves, each representing a different attribute ? Bajaj et al. 
The Contour Spectrum [1] provides quantitative metrics of a volume to help us select two suitable isovalues for the interval volume
As for the data-driven methods, Bajaj et al. [9] describe a tool for assisting the user in selecting isovalues for effective isosurface volume visualizations of unstructured triangular meshes for isosurface rendering
Bajaj and his associates devised the contour spectrum which can guide the selection of iso-values for contouring [1]...
...Bajaj et al. [2] showed contour trees and geometric properties to guide isovalue selection, but did not discuss algorithms for contour tree layout...
For that purpose, we introduce a contour tree representation [2,8] since it faithfully represents such topological transition of isosurfaces
Designing transfer functions with no assistance leads to a trial-and-error approach, and therefore several automatic and semi-automatic techniques for specifying TFs were proposed [1, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 17
Bajaj et al. [2] proposed the display of the contour tree to provide the user with insights into the topological structures of the isosurfaces embedded in the volume data.
Bajaj et al. [BPS97] introduced the Contour Spectrum, which analyzes isosurface properties for the whole intensity value range.
Examples are (i) the Contour Spectrum [2], which visually summarizes the space of iso-surfaces in terms of some metrics, (ii) the Design Gallery [15], which creates an interface to the space of possible transfer functions, (iii) the technique of K¨ onig and G¨ oller [9], where thumbnail renderings give information about the spaces of data values, colors and opacity, and (iv) the ISpace [17] technique, where classification
